Andres
English Composition II
Professor Erin Stettner, M.A.
Monday, May 2, 2022
1-7 Assignment: From Issue to Persuasion
	Software engineering poses a multitude and variety of problems, issues, and difficulties for researchers, adults, and experienced professionals. The first issue that overwhelmingly has taken place in the public’s eye is the protection of consumer data from hackers and malicious actors. It is the most notable topic of software creation, a part of teaching the structure of code coherently and eliminating silos of productivity at work. Privacy is innate, and a habitual ritual we all perform for our mental well-being. And as all software engineers it should be at the forefront of our minds. The availability of our data and how it infers or influences decisions making it a great concern for all Americans. Consumers of IoT products, researchers, people who browse the web, and play games are the demographics of the human population affected by the mis-governance and misappropriation of these data collecting activities while allowing the user to explore the web freely and speedily. The second issue connected with the Computer Science major of Software Engineering is the ethical and biased outcomes of artificial intelligence algorithms. Delving into the history of judiciary system, examples of inequitable decision making, and exclusionary economical practices, like denying home ownership are grave examples of algorithmic bias. The importance of contributing positively towards these two issues as a software engineer will greatly speed the development of our country and make the world a more positive place to live and work.
	Software engineering generates a tremendous amount of data from companies the deploy websites and applications, that can be bought online maliciously or freely distributed by malevolent actors. Understanding the local implementations of where the software developer is in the world greatly determines compliance to state laws for the benefit of the consumer. The nation's privacy laws may be outdated to where technology and the culture is moving towards having this be exploited by malicious third parties without judiciary oversight causing irreparable harm throughout the nation and communities. Topics like government tracking our data or motion picture companies suing virtual private networks for access to their user log files all pose dilemmas and serious issues that without proper oversight could cause damage to the credibility and stability of our nation through misappropriation of funds pertaining to private corporate matters or long trials while malicious third parties continue data collection or refuse to collect data depending on the circumstance.
	Promoting the use of artificial intelligence becomes a problem when there is algorithmic bias in sensitive issues. Past examples of AI holding some of the same cultural biases that have inflicted our nation are refusing credit to minorities for economical ventures, the discrimination of female job applicants, inequitable probability of criminal recidivisms, or the propagation of inequities in a community. Artificial intelligence tools like machine learning and natural language processing have the positive outcomes of accomplishing their goals and desires of the researchers involved but there is also a tremendous amount of disconnect between how the machines impact our lives. Its impact is sometimes not cost effective for research or business teams. The lack of support or data in the computing industry across multiple schools of thought, such as psychology and computing may not exist. The amount of time it takes to draw references, catch relevant parties up to speed on results, and outside influences such as, the government or board members uniquely make this field a tremendous challenge.
	Software engineering has the greatest potential for growth and contribution to our world and society. Privacy laws and algorithmic bias are two hurdles among these issues within the field, highlighted recently in the news. Moving the field forward with the help of lawmakers, civilians, and researchers the world will continue to be a greater place to live and work. By increasing the privacy of our lives, we can develop rich and uninterrupted moments with our loved ones and become more aware of our surroundings. Having unbiased algorithms that help employers choose the right candidate for the job or alert doctors of the presence of disease will greatly improve the quality of our life and the lives that those algorithms touch. Not only will people be happier in their jobs but will create a world that is equitable and inclusive of all people. 


Works Cited
Gsenger, R., & Strle, T. (2021). Trust, automation bias and aversion: Algorithmic decision-making in the context of credit scoring. Interdisciplinary Description of Complex Systems, 19(4), 540–558. https://doi.org/10.7906/indecs.19.4.7
